Brain atlases -- also referred to as templates -- play a fundamental role in neuroanalysis and neuroscience as they provide a graphical representation of the brain of a certain population. The lower the morphological and volumetric differences between the atlas and the target population, the lower the errors in subsequent analyses. However, numerous procedures rely on the Talairach and Montreal Neurological Institute (MNI) atlases created with scans from French and Canadian subjects, respectively, i.e. they may induce bias in analyses of the Latin or Colombian population.  Thus, in this work, we create the first brain atlas of the Latin population to have a reference of normality closer to that of our country. Our methodology for constructing a Latino-American stereotactic brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was as follows. First, we systematically review the literature to determine whether such an atlas already existed and to select relevant techniques and methodologies for building these digital templates. Second, we used the identified approximations to build the atlas. Third, we evaluate the proposed Latino-American atlas by comparing its length, width, height, AC-PC length, and volume to other atlases available in the literature; and assessing the level of deformation needed to register our atlas and already available ones to scans from Latino-American people. Our results over the Latino-American brain atlas against ICBM452 indicated positive aspects when dealing with a new volume from Latino-American population. It requires less global deformation and there is more similarity in size at global and structural levels with our template relative to others. Indeed, these observations indicate that the closer the atlas to the study population, the reduced the bias in subsequent analyses. This, in general terms, would indicate that if there were a study of the Colombian population that required a brain MRI atlas, that atlas should be created with images of the same population in order to obtain a better result.
